Update event_listeners.rst (#220)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/plugins/event_listeners.rst

Event listeners
===============

> Mautic leverages Symfony's EventDispatcher to execute and communicate various actions through Mautic. Plugins can hook into these to extend the functionality of Mautic. Refer to the Extending Mautic section of the documentation for some of the ways to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mautic leverages Symfony's EventDispatcher to execute and communicate various actions through Mautic. Plugins can hook into these to extend the capability of Mautic. Refer to the Extending Mautic section of the documentation for some of the ways to do this.
```
Vale fix

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    //plugins\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener\LeadSubscriber

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\LeadBundle\Event as Events;
    use Mautic\LeadBundle\LeadEvents;

    /**
     * Class LeadSubscriber
     *
     * @package Mautic\LeadBundle\EventListener
     */
    class LeadSubscriber extends CommonSubscriber
    {
    
        /**
         * @return array
         */
        static public function getSubscribedEvents()
        {
            return array(
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_SAVE     => array('onLeadPostSave', 0),
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_DELETE   => array('onLeadDelete', 0)
            );
        }
    
        public function onLeadPostSave(LeadEvent $event)
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            // do something
        }
    
        public function onLeadDelete(LeadEvent $event)
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            $deletedId = $lead->deletedId;
            
            // do something
        }
    }
    // ...

Subscribers
-----------

> The easiest way to listen to various events is to use an event subscriber. Read more about subscribers in `Symfony's documentation<http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/event_dispatcher/introduction.html#using-event-subscribers>`_. 

Reviewer: Please use the make link tool at the command line to generate a link file (check there isn't one there already, and please use the similar syntax to the existing link files). Documentation on this feature can be found here: https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/references.html#use-the-external-links-extension.

> Plugin event subscribers can extend ``\Mautic\CoreBundle\EventListener\CommonSubscriber`` which gives access to commonly used dependencies and also allows registering the subscriber service through the bundles's config file. See :ref:`plugins/config:Service config items` for more information on registering event services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin event subscribers can extend ``\Mautic\CoreBundle\EventListener\CommonSubscriber`` which gives access to commonly used dependencies and also allows registering the subscriber service through the config file for the bundle. See :ref:`plugins/config:Service config items` for more information on registering event services. 
```

Vale fix

> Available Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available events
```

> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----------------

```

> There are many events available throughout Mautic. Depending on the desired functionality, look at the core bundle's *Event.php file in the root of the bundle.  For example, Lead related events are defined and described in ``app\bundles\LeadBundle\LeadEvents.php``. The final classes provide the names of the events to listen to.  Always use the event constants to ensure future changes to event names will not break the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many events available throughout Mautic. Depending on what you're trying to implement, look at the ``*Event.php`` for the core bundle, located in the root of the bundle. For example, the ``app\bundles\LeadBundle\LeadEvents.php`` file defines and describes events relating to Contacts. The final classes provide the names of the events to listen to. Always use the event constants to ensure future changes to event names won't break the Plugin.
```

Vale fixes

> Custom Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom events
```

-------------

> A plugin can create and dispatch its own events. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Plugin can create and dispatch its own events. 
```

Custom events require the following:

> 1) The class defining the available events for the plugin using a ``final class`` with constants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) The class defining the available events for the Plugin using a ``final class`` with constants.
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    // plugins\HelloWorldBundle\HelloWorldEvents.php
    
    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle;
    
    /**
     * Class HelloWorldEvents
     */
    final class HelloWorldEvents
    {
        /**
         * The helloworld.armageddon event is dispatched when a world is doomed by a giant meteor
         *
         * The event listener receives a MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Event\ArmageddonEvent instance.
         *
         * @var string
         */
        const ARMAGEDDON = 'helloworld.armageddon';
    }
    // ...

> 2) The Event class that is received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event``. It will be created when the event is dispatched and should have any information listeners need to act on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) The Event class that is received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event``. It's created when the event is dispatched and should have any information listeners need to act on it.
```

Event listeners

> ===============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###############
```

Please be careful with the heading syntax - it's as follows:

```
H1 ###
H2 ***
H3 ===
H4 ---
H5 ~~~
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    //plugins\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener\LeadSubscriber

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\LeadBundle\Event as Events;
    use Mautic\LeadBundle\LeadEvents;

    /**
     * Class LeadSubscriber
     *
     * @package Mautic\LeadBundle\EventListener
     */
    class LeadSubscriber extends CommonSubscriber
    {
    
        /**
         * @return array
         */
        static public function getSubscribedEvents()
        {
            return array(
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_SAVE     => array('onLeadPostSave', 0),
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_DELETE   => array('onLeadDelete', 0)
            );
        }
    
        public function onLeadPostSave(LeadEvent $event)
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            // do something
        }
    
        public function onLeadDelete(LeadEvent $event)
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            $deletedId = $lead->deletedId;
            
            // do something
        }
    }

>     // ...

Reviewer 2: A little bit more modern PHP:
```suggestion
    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;

    use Mautic\LeadBundle\LeadEvent;
    use Mautic\LeadBundle\LeadEvents;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    final class LeadSubscriber extends EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        static public function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_SAVE     => ['onLeadPostSave', 0],
                LeadEvents::LEAD_POST_DELETE   => ['onLeadDelete', 0],
            ];
        }
    
        public function onLeadPostSave(LeadEvent $event): void
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            // do something
        }
    
        public function onLeadDelete(LeadEvent $event): void
        {
            $lead = $event->getLead();
            
            $deletedId = $lead->deletedId;
            
            // do something
        }
    }
    // ...
```

Subscribers

> -----------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***********
```

Also note: headings must _always_ be unique. This has a high likelihood of breaking that rule. Could you make it more specific to this particular context?

The easiest way to listen to various events is to use an event subscriber. Read more about subscribers in :xref:`symfony-event-subscribers`. 

> Plugin event subscribers can extend ``\Mautic\CoreBundle\EventListener\CommonSubscriber`` which gives access to commonly used dependencies and also allows registering the subscriber service through the config file for the bundle. See :ref:`plugins/config:Service config items` for more information on registering event services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plugin event subscribers can extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface`` which gives access to commonly used dependencies and also allows registering the subscriber service through autowiring.
```

    
Available events

> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
****************
```

There are many events available throughout Mautic. Depending on what you're trying to implement, look at the ``*Event.php`` for the core bundle, located in the root of the bundle. For example, the ``app\bundles\LeadBundle\LeadEvents.php`` file defines and describes events relating to Contacts. The final classes provide the names of the events to listen to. Always use the event constants to ensure future changes to event names won't break the Plugin.

Custom events

> -------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*************
```

A Plugin can create and dispatch its own events. 

Custom events require the following:

1) The class defining the available events for the Plugin using a ``final class`` with constants.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    // plugins\HelloWorldBundle\HelloWorldEvents.php
    
    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle;
    
    /**
     * Class HelloWorldEvents

>      */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
The comment says the same thing as the class itself so it's not necessary

    final class HelloWorldEvents
    {
        /**
         * The helloworld.armageddon event is dispatched when a world is doomed by a giant meteor
         *
         * The event listener receives a MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Event\ArmageddonEvent instance.
         *
         * @var string
         */
        const ARMAGEDDON = 'helloworld.armageddon';
    }
    // ...

> 2) The Event class that is received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event``. It's created when the event is dispatched and should have any information listeners need to act on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) The Event class received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event``. It's created when dispatching the event and should have any information listeners need to act on it.
```

Vale recommendations

> 2) The Event class that is received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event``. It's created when the event is dispatched and should have any information listeners need to act on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2) The Event class that is received by the listeners. This class should extend ``Symfony\Contracts\EventDispatcher\Event``. It's created when the event is dispatched and should have any information listeners need to act on it.
```

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
    // plugins\HelloWorldBundle\Event\ArmageddonEvent.php
    
    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Event;
    
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\Event;
    use MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Entity\World;
    
    class ArmageddonEvent extends Event
    {
        /** @var World  */
        protected $world;
        
        /** @var bool  */    
        protected $falseAlarm = false;
         
        public function __construct(World $world)
        {
            $this->world = $world;
        }
        
        public function shouldPanic()
        {
            return ('earth' == $this->world->getName());
        }
        
        public function setIsFalseAlarm()
        {
            $this->falseAlarm = true;
        }
        
        public function getIsFalseAlarm()
        {
            return $this->falseAlarm;
        }

>     }

Reviewer 2: Modern PHP with types and updated Symfony namespace for Symfony 5+
```suggestion
    <?php
    // plugins\HelloWorldBundle\Event\ArmageddonEvent.php
    
    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Event;
    
    use Symfony\Contracts\EventDispatcher\Event;
    use MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Entity\World;
    
    final class ArmageddonEvent extends Event
    {
        private bool $falseAlarm = false;
         
        public function __construct(private World $world)
        {
        }
        
        public function shouldPanic(): bool
        {
            return ('earth' == $this->world->getName());
        }
        
        public function setIsFalseAlarm(): void
        {
            $this->falseAlarm = true;
        }
        
        public function getIsFalseAlarm(): bool
        {
            return $this->falseAlarm;
        }
    }
```
